# EWRT1A Homework 11
Three More Short Story Summaries/Cited Quotes for Viet Thanh Nguyen’s The Refugees

A. Select three different short stories out of the eight possible in Nguyen’s book The Refugees. For each new story, write at least three summary sentences in which you mention the short story title in quotes, name the main characters, summarize the plot and possible theme.

Here is an example: In "Someone Else Besides You," Nguyen describes the dysfunctional relationship between a father and his son Thomas, who both have female relationship problems.  In fact, the story's title comes from the father's girlfriend Mimi who asks Thomas, "Aren't there times when you'd rather be someone else besides you?" (177).  Themes include relationships, loss, death, role of the father, family, responsibility, love, anger.

B. Then, copy three quotes from each of your selected three short stories (9 total), citing the page number, and write a brief personal comment about what that quote reveals regarding the character or theme. See bottom of this attachment for some possible themes. Remember, this is a work of fiction, so it is the character who is speaking.

Here is a quote/comment example: "We [Thomas and his father] drove past the oil derricks, visible as shadows in the shape of gigantic pelicans nesting" (172).  I really like the imagery of birds.  There are similar oil derricks south of Long Beach in Southern California.  I also like Sam's thought one sentence later: " . . .  I guess oil was to be found in every part of the world, just like anger and sorrow" (173).  This idea of universal pain reflects what Thomas and his father feel with the loss of their wives, one through divorce and one through death.

*Possible Themes:* coming of age, loneliness, anger, overcoming obstacles, betrayal, war, searching for identity, role of the father, lost love, survival, death, relationships, family, loyalty, biculturalism, prejudice, survival, homosexuality, gender roles, infidelity, patriotism, ghosts, mental illness, power, corruption, confusion, hypocrisy, transformation, sacrifice, responsibility, perseverance, commitment, change, redemption, phoniness, peace, justice, lying, capitalism, communism . . . (there are many others).

## Part A
* Story 1: The two main characters in the story “The Transplant” written by Viet Thanh Nguyen are Arthur Arellano, a middle-aged Mexican who live in the Orange County, California and who’s life was saved by a liver donation, and Louis Vu, a Vietnam born Chinese who Arthur identified as the son of his liver donor, but later found, just a pretender. The four supporting characters include Arthur’s wife, Norma; Arthur’s younger brother and employer, Martin; his medical doctor, Dr. Viswanathan; and the real child of the donor, Minh Vu. Themes include addiction, sickness, gratitude, repayment, relationships, family, confusion, change, justice, lying, anger, power struggle, blackmail, and entrapment.
* Story 2: In Nguyen’s short story “I'd love you to want me,” the main character is Mrs. Khanh, age 59, works in the Garden Grove library part time taking care of her husband, Professor Khanh, age 73, who retired from teaching Vietnamese in community college last year and started to lose memory. They escaped from Vung Tau three after the war by taking a boat to float to Malaysia. They have six children but only their oldest son, Vihn, known as Kevin, who works as a nurse in the county hospital will take a one hour drive from LA to visit them in Westminster. With the progress of the story, both of their memory issues worsen. Her husband called her Yen, a name she does not recognize, and that made her uneasy. But she still commits to take good care of her husband. Themes include: coming of age, emotion, loneliness, lost love, relationships, family, loyalty, confusion, responsibility, perseverance, commitment.
* Story 3: Nguyen’s short story “The Americans,” focuses on the interaction between James Carver, a sixty-years old retired pilot, and his English teacher daughter Claire during his trip to Vietnam with his Japanese wife Michiko. James served as B52 pilot during the Vietnam war and later worked as a commercial pilot for Pan Am. He hurt himself three years ago and now is limp. Claire is one of his twin children, 28 years old, born together with her brother William. Claire moved to Quant Tri, Vietnam to teach a total one hundred twenty students English, in four different classes. Being a mixed child with both caucasian and Japanese heritage, Claire found her place in this remote town far away from America and met her Asian boyfriend Khoi Lagaspi, who was adopted and working on researching a new system of demining by teaming up robot and mongoose. They first met in Hue to tour the imperial tomb then pay a visit to Quant Tri. Jamese and Claire struggle in their interaction. After a heated argument, Jamese walked off and soaked wet in the rain and got very sick. Woke up in the hospital, accompanied by Claire, on the way Claire assisting him walk from his bed to the restroom, Jamese starts to remember their sweet time together years ago and finally breaks down his emotion. Themes include coming of age, loneliness, anger, war, patriotism, searching for identity, role of the father, family, biculturalism, prejudice, transformation, responsibility, change, redemption.

## Part B
* Quote 1-1: The author hinted in the very beginning of the story that Louis is deceiving Arthur by his honest statement and question, “‘Of course I’m telling myself what I want to hear!’ … `We all tell ourselves what we want to hear: The point, Arthur, is this: Do you want to hear what I’m telling myself?’” (75) Arthur was not fooled by Louis, but rather, by himself while eagerly wanting to find the child of his liver donor without careful verification.
* Quote 1-2:  Norma thinks Arthur is not accountable for his life seriously and still not mature in personality to take care of his life while she said,  “`Art, you’re fifty years old, and you act fifteen. Now go to sleep and leave me alone’” (82). This also shows they are in a bad relationship emotionally even though Norma came back to assist Arthur’s medical issue and supported his recovery. However, due to Arthur’s gambling habit, their marriage is on the brink of falling apart. 
* Quote 1-3: The following text in the story indicates Arthur thinks highly about Louis, as a smarter person, “This, Arthur realized, was the difference between them. Arthur thought of what he had done, what he was doing, or what he should have done, but Louis thought only of what he would do” (88). He respects Louis’s ability to control and manage his future. 
* Quote 2-1: Vinh spoke to his parents as a representative of all six of their children, “‘We think you should retire from the library, Ma,’ he said … ‘We can send home enough money every month to cover all the bills. You can have a housekeeper to help you out. And a gardener, too.’” (105). This shows a very typical interaction in a traditional Asian family- the adult children feel obligated to financially support their aged parents. And the fact that Vinh uses the plural pronoun “We” instead of  the singular “I” implies he was speaking for his sibling as the conclusion of their group decision and every child will chip in money to take care of their parents financially. 
* Quote 2-2: In the early part of the novel, Mrs. Khanh was very concerned that her husband would call her by the name “Yen” who she has no idea who he is calling and suspect it is another woman. By the end of the novel, she started to ignore that, “‘It’s just me, ‘ she said. ‘It’s Yen.’” (123). She started to act in a way to conform to the mental status of her husband. 
* Quote 2-3: The author illustrates the assertive commitment Mrs. Khanh held to take care of her husband in the end of the novel, “She wondered what, if anything, she knew about love. Not much, perhaps, but enough to know that what she would do for him now she would do again tomorrow, and the next day, and the day after that. She would read out loud, from the beginning. She would read with measured breath, to the very end. She would read as if every letter counted, page by page and word by word” (124).
* Quote 3-1: The exchange between Claire and Jamese, “‘He’s old and angry and bitter and he’s taking it out on everyone he meets.’ ‘I’m not angry and bitter. What am I angry about? What am I bitter about? That I’m being lectured to by a kid who thinks he’s going to save the world with a tin can robot? That I have a daughter who think she;s a Vietnamese?’” (141), revealed to us how Claire sees her father and how James sees himself. From Clair’s eyes, James is not a father easy to interact with. From James’ point of view, Claire and Legaspi are naive and do not understand the emotion and moral suffering he sacrificed for the country. Everyone involved in the war are looser to the war, they always suffered from the blaming, from their own heart or by others, toward them of being part of an act of killing, while in fact they were placed in a dilemma that they struggled and intend to avoid thinking and remember since they know everything they did, regardless truly was truely necessary at that time, damaged, hurt and killed someone. They were angry postwar. They do not know what they are agreeing about. The anger came from the guilt deep inside their soul of their acts during the war, which subconsciously they know caused bad things to some life in this world, even though they may not see them in their own eyes. 
* Quote 3-2: The written text in the story on the surface suggested Carver has strong patriotism by mentioning he served in the Air Force as a B52 pilot during the Vietnam war and he felt very proud that his son William also joined the Air Force Academy and is now serving the country as a KC-135 pilot. But his true feeling againsting the decision maker of his country was revealed in his short speech to Legaspi,  “‘Do you ever know who you’re dealing with? You ever thought about what the DOD could do with these robots?’ Carver said. … ‘Some brilliant guy at a university working on a defense contract will figure out a way to put a landmine on this robot. Then the Pentagon will send it into a tunnel where a terrorist is hiding’” (141). This speech shows James, in hindsight actually wondering if his bombing during the war can be justified, or was instead, an unjust decision by DOD.
* Quote 3-3: The description of a beautiful reflection of the memory in James’s mind, “Not so many years later, when Claire was walking but barely potty trained, and still sleeping in their bed, she would wake up, slip off the edge and land on his chest, and when he opened one eye, demand to be taken to the bathroom. The trip alone in the dark was so frightening. He would sigh, get up, and lead her down the hall, step by careful step, her hand wrapped around one of his fingers” (148-49), echos his emotion on this moment while his grown daughter Claire holding his hand and carefully guiding him though this very same kind of trip, but the role in reverse. This is a wonderful depiction of his transformation of emotion at this moment. 
