# EWRT1A Homework 12
A. Read Viet Thanh Nguyen’s essay “On Being a Refugee, an American — and a Human Being” on pages 211-218, after the last short story, at the end of the book.  Copy, cite, and comment on five quotes found in this essay.  If you are unable to find this essay in the back of your book, you can Google it.
For example: “The refugee embodies fear, failure, and flight” (212). I really like the writer’s use of alliteration here. Maybe I’ll use this idea for my thesis in the next essay.

B. Write a minimum 8-sentence Introduction for your upcoming classification/division essay (you can use personal experience/observation if you want).  For your Introduction, you can ask questions (answer), "Imagine" the future, relate to the past,  use personal or cited quotes.  Be sure to include a possible theme-related thesis statement as the last sentence of your Introduction, and do mention the complete author’s name and his book title italicized somewhere in your Introduction. See two examples of possible thesis statements under “Note” below.

C. Construct a possible topic classification/division outline (see pages 437-439), which is  in Chapter 12, for your upcoming essay.  This needs to be five lines in length.   This is really a five paragraph-style essay.  Remember, all your thesis support will be examples from Nguyen's book.  Please note outline example below:
## Outline Example:
* **Thesis**:  In Viet Thanh Nguyen's collection of short stories The Refugees, three of his stories focus on the themes of war, family, and love.
* **Paragraph One**: War --  "Black-Eyed Women"
* **Paragraph Two**: Family -- "Fatherland"
* **Paragraph Three**:  Love --  "I'd Love You To Want Me"
* **Conclusion**:  Tie back to thesis 
 
**Note**: Please don’t panic about the term classification/division. It is primarily a setup for a five-paragraph essay. You will be writing about three of the six short stories you read for HW; you can also include and use the last essay you will read above in Part A of this homework assignment: "On Being a Refugee, an American - and a Human Being."  You can either compare the three by a similar theme, or state they each have a separate theme.
Below are some examples of possible thesis statements:
**Example**: Nguyen includes three short stories in his book The Refugees that deal with the theme of loss.
**Example**: Nguyen incorporates the themes of corruption, biculturalism, and anger in three of his short stories.

## Part A

* Quote 1: The author wrote a very clear and strong opening statement, “I am a refugee, an American, and a human being, which is important to proclaim, as there are many who think these identities cannot be reconciled” (211). He pointed out every person in this world always plays multiple identities in parallel and the reconciliation of being these at the same time, for some people, requires an act of proclamation. 
* Quote 2: The author shows a paradox, “It is un-American to be a refugee” (212). The author continues, “The refugee embodies fear, failure, and flight. Americans of all kinds believe that it is impossible for an American to become a refugee, although it is possible for refugees to become Americans and in that way be elevated one step closer to heaven” (212). He suggested that the emotional nature of refugees conflict with the core value of free spirit Americans. He argued many believe it is an “one way street” on the reconciliation process between the identity of being a “refugee” and an “American”.
* Quote 3:  The author pointed out most refugees operate under a very different world view from other, “Like the homeless, refugees are living embodiments of a disturbing possibility: that human privileges are quite fragile, that one’s home, family and nation are one catastrophe away from being destroyed” (213). Their life experiences urge them to reduce dependency on and trust upon the proper operation of a just political institution, if that is possible to exist in this world, they doubt.
* Quote 4:  The author argued, “The economic interests of the unwanted and the fearful middle class are aligned- but so many can’t see that because of how much they fear the different, the refugee, the immigrant. In its most naked form, this is racism. In a more polite form, it takes the shape of defending one’s culture, where one would rather remain economically poor but ethnically pure” (217). This is so true there are “hidden racism” everywhere. They often present in a name of “preserving historical social value and traditional social order” and often argue we should conform to the “founding fathers’ intend”. But in reality, they just lack the competency to compete in a changing society that quickly obsolete their outdated skills, and try to use the name of who died long ago to safeguard their undeserved privileges.  
* Quote 5:  The author asserts the core value of America as a country built by immigrants, and therefore, should be a place aiming for the best of what all immigrants to enjoy their success, not limited to only a few, “the way to overcome fear is to demand the America that should be, and can be, the America that dreams the best version of itself” (218).

## Part B
“Love”, the four letter English word that modern society frequently and naively associated with the concept of romantic love, casual sex, and flammable passion. This word carries a much deeper meaning than what our massive media shallowly portrays in our daily life.  While we do see the acting of “love” in other contexts, the most dense location we observe “Love” is in family relationships.  “Family Love” is therefore the core representation of “love” because family is where we are bonded with each other either by our blood or by our wedding vow.  The love in a family has many different facades due to the roles we connect to each other.  With the change of age, time of maturing, the dynamic within our family love also evolves.  In Viet Thanh Nguyen's collection of short stories, The Refugees, the author illustrates many representations and progression of “Family Love”. Through the lens of the complex life story of refugees through war, we see a vivid illustration of the reality of the sacrificial love between siblings, the love of responsibility beyond romantic passion between spouses, and the everlasting love between parent and child. 

## Part C
* **Thesis:**  In Viet Thanh Nguyen's collection of short stories The Refugees, his stories focus on the themes of different kinds of family love: the love between siblings, the love between spouses, and the love between parent and child. 
* **Paragraph One:** Love between Siblings --  "Black-Eyed Women" and “The Transplant”
* **Paragraph Two:** Love between spouses -- "War Years" and “I’d Love You to Want Me”
* **Paragraph Three:**  Love between parent and child --  "Black-Eyed Women" and “The Americans”
* **Conclusion:**  Tie back to thesis 
