# EWRT1A Homework 13, 14, 15
An ill Chinese student is sent to Japan to be cared for by an older Japanese man when that country is just beginning to brutally invade China in 1937, leading up to World War 2.  The historical part of this book is true: the plot and characters are not.  Your final Essay 4 is an analysis of Gail Tsukiyama’s fictional novel The Samurai’s Garden, in which all your thesis support will come from the book.
Read approximately a third of the book (about 70 pages), and select and copy 8 sentences you like.  After each selected sentence, cite the page number and write a personal comment.

* Here is an example of one cited quote/comment:

“While the left side of her face [Sachi’s] has been devastated, the unblemished right side was the single most beautiful face I’d ever seen” (27).    This gives me a visual of yin and yang, inner beauty versus outer.
 
* Here is another example of a cited quote/comment: 

" . . . I knew the sense of integrity I had long admired in him [Stephen's father] had died, and that I was already grieving for its loss" (85).  What a symbol of emotional death.  It seems Stephen actually has more love for Matsu than his own father.

NOTE:  Brackets are used to help clarify any information that may not be clear to the reader.  A writer should never let a reader guess. 

## Homework 13
1. “He [Stephen's father]  bows low with eyes averted seems at times more Japanese than Chinese to me” (4). This shows the differences of body posture in daily life between a Japanese and a Chinese. Japanese tend to be very serious about showing politeness respect to others by bows low with eyes averted. This is one easy way to distinguish a Japanese from a Chinese. Stephen’s father lives and conducts business in Japan. Even though he is Chinese, he mimics the regular behavior of Japanese he interacted with to fit in their society and look normal and meet the community’s expectation on the politeness of a regular person. 
1. The sentence “Only after she [Stephen’s mother] thought I had disappeared into the crowds did my mother lift her white lace handkerchief to her eyes” (5) implies his mother cried during his departure. This shows she hides her sad emotion and worries about the health of her son to avoid making Stephen sad if see her sadness. However, if she only cried after Stephen disappeared into the crowds, then how could Stephen know she cried after? He guessed? He assumed? Or maybe she told him later.
1. Similar to the description about Stephen’s mother hiding her emotion during their separation, his father also hid his emotion in front of him:  “I could tell by the way his [Stephen’s father] body tensed that he was shocked at my appearance, but he tried not to show it” (5). Old generation Chinese parents seem to have a moral preference to remain emotionless in front of their children. Such preferences create a gap between parent/children relationship and create difficulty for pleasant communication.
1. The author introduces and explains an important Japanese custom by a casual mention of past conversion between Stephen and his mom: “I asked my mother why we had to change our shoes before going into the house. She said it had to do with the Japanese custom of cleanliness, of not taking dirt from the street into the house, and also because of the delicacy of the tatami mats lining the floor inside” (10). I always know about the first reason but this is the first time I understand the second reason about the tatami mats. That is a perfectly logical but hard to comprehensive unless you live in such a tatami floored house for a period of time. 
1. The following exchange between Stephen and Sachi-san briefly and vividly illustrates a regular scene of how people greet each other in their first meeting: “‘Konnichiwa,’ I said, smiling and bowing, trying to put her [Sachi] at ease. The woman stepped back and bowed humbly” (26). Japanese people always bow toward each other with a smile as the proper way to greet each other. 
1. The author compared and contrasted the two half of Sachi’s face very effectively with simple words: “While the left side of her [Sachi’s] face had been devastated, the unblemished right side was the single most beautiful face I’d ever seen” (27). The use of the words are conscious, clear, and shows not only how the leprosy damages the physical appearance of her, but also how such an unfortunate event is not able to decrease the true beauty of her internally. 
1. The author utilized an abrupt end to create the climax of the diary entry of October 8, 1937: “I asked, ‘Why did you take me with you to Yamaguchi?’ Matsu slowed, then turned to face me before he answered, ‘So you would know that you’re not alone’” (30). I appreciate that she stopped there and left us without anything more for that diary entry. It is a rather surprising reason Matsu gave. Does he feel Stephene needs stronger emotion support while facing his own illness during this recovery period? I wonder.
1. “The black pines twist and turn to form graceful shapes, while the moss is a carpet of green that invites you to sit by the pond. Even the stone lanterns, which dimly light the way at night, allow you to see only so much. Matsu’s garden whispers at you, never shouts; it leads you down a path hoping for more, as if everything is seen, yet hidden” (31). While Stephen attempted to capture the beauty of this garden on his canvas by paint, the author, using the voice of Stephen in words, rendered this beautiful scene with artistic and colorful description. 

## Homework 14
1. “Kenzo stepped back. ‘You really are a monster!’ he roared” (67). It is understandable that Kenzo felt hurt after he saw Sachi step down to the town and work alongside his best friend Matsu, the one he trusted the most. He must feel betrayed by both Matsu and Sachi. For a man who emotionally connected to her for so many years it is understandable he would be shocked. However, the words he chose to speak at that time is surely way too negative and damaging not only to the feelings of Sachi and Matsu, but also destroy the last piece of dignity of himself. He lost not only respect but also grace when he carelessly chose to use those words against a weak person. Guarding our own mouth is one of the most difficult tasks to do as a righteous human being. Without graceful words, no one can be a righteous person. 
1. “The garden has once again become his [Matsu’s] refuge, the only place he seems to feel any comfort. It’s there that Matsu becomes the artist; adding and mixing colors” (73). Matsu seeked a place to park his emotion and that is in the garden. He spent his energy to create artwork by gardening, a job God gave Adam to manage His creation. Connecting to nature and the mission of human beings seems a good way for anyone to retreat.  
1. “‘I  [Stephen] came here to tell you you don’t have to hide from us. The scars make no difference to me, and I know they never did to Matsu,’ I said frantically” (75-76). These are probably the best words Stephen can say during this complex social condition. He knew Sachi avoided going down to the town not because of what he thought, but rather what kind of trouble she may bring into Stephen’s life because of Kenzo. But Stephen cannot let Sachi know he was aware of Kenso’s disrespectful act several nights ago. What else can Stephen say to Sachi now? I won’t have a better way to express that if I was him. 
1. “The scars appeared like a matted white web, stretched from her chin to her eye.Part of her nose was eaten away and there was a small depression near her mouth, which made her lower lip sag downward. I was more astonished to see her entire face uncovered than I was by the distorting scars. Her hair was pulled tightly back into a chignon, and in her good eye I could still see her youthful beauty. If Sachi was trying to shock me then she was in for a surprise. I had known from the moment I met her that she was attractive. But it wasn't until I came to know Sachi that I began to see how beautiful she really was” (76). These words described how distorted and ugly half of Sachi’s face was in the physical sense, but also skillfully rendered how sincere Stephen thought about her inner beauty. It is very difficult for us to see the abnormal appearance of another human being and naturally we would have difficulty to accept those appearances. When I saw some of the old historical photos of how bad it could damage a person’s face it was very difficult to see them. Sachi must have a very gracious and gentle spirit to shine through the broken face her disease destroyed. 
1. “I couldn’t even begin to imagine Sachi and MAtsu as my enemy, yet it felt strange to think that as I sat comfortably within their midst, Japan continued to ravage our homeland” (85). For citizens of both countries caught in between by the Japanese military invasion into China, it is a very difficult time. My father and grandfather were Chinese, in particular Cantonese, born in Korea under Japanese control starting 1895. Our family had to move back to Shanghai China from Korea after the July 7 1937 official warfare since Chinese who lived in Korea then started to be at risk to be treated as citizens of the enemy country. I can totally understand the complicated feeling Stephene and his father went through at that time.  
1. “I [Stephen] knew I’d failed both of my parents. I wasn’t able to accept my father’s mistress, yet I couldn't make her disappear from our lives as my mother wanted” (86). I think Stephen took too much on his shoulder and blamed himself for two things he simply is not in any position to fulfill. While children were caught in between the extramarital affair of their parents, they are the victims but oftentimes they blame themselves as part of the problem which they should not. 
1. “‘To purify yourself before entering the shrine,’ Matsu whispered, as if he didn’t want to disturb the gods” (89). It is interesting that both Japanese religion and Christianity have certain rituals to use water for cleaning. Japanese religion put water outside their shrine and let the worshiper to clean themselves before entering the shrine and Christian are baptized by submerging into water to repent for their sin and proclaim their willingness to follow Jesus and repent, and regain the new life by the wash of the Holy Spirit. It seems all religions believe the sinful nature of human beings is not worthy to see the supreme being and need the cleaning to approach the mighty powerful one. 
1. “[Matsu said] ‘... It’s sometimes easier to believe what everyone else believes’” (104). Oftentimes we know what is the truth, but we may not publicly recognize that. Instead, we simply follow the “common sense” or peer assumption to act accordingly. We felt no need to challenge the conventional wisdom nor have any interest to find out the truth of small incident in our lives, believing that arguing against these  idea would cost too much of our energy but in the meantime, cause us to miss some cherish opportunity for a better future unknowingly. 

## Homework 15
1. The author expresses the sibling love between Stephane and Pie through their exchange of letters:  “Pie’s words had gone straight to my heart. … The only thing that had dampened my happiness was the slight, innocent remark at the end of Pie’s letter. ‘I heard Mah-mee tell Ching she would like you to come home soon, because it might no longer be safe for you in Japan. I can’t wait to see you again!’” (118). The last line in the letter expresses a deep concern from Pie who loves her brother dearly. 
1. The author rendered a vivid scene of Spring coming to life: “The cherry blossoms had bloomed overnight. Even the smallest tree’s branches were fully dressed with pink blossoms. Everything in the garden smelled sweetly remote, and felt so distant, I thought I would have to reacquaint myself with it all over  again” (156). This paragraph skilly renders the beautiful Springtime with color pink in different shapes of cherry blossoms leaves. 
1. Before the author describes a very erogenous scene of the love making between Stephene and Keiko, she wrote “I leaned back on a bed of pine needles and allowed myself to relax, closing my eyes” (166). This creates an interesting puzzling effect to the reader to ask the question: Does the following sex scene really happen physically between them? Or is that just a sexual illusion in Stephene’s dream? 
1. The night scene of O-bon is illustrated very colorful by the words of the author: “Large and small paper lanterns hung from the thin poles, lighting the way for the ghosts to arrive and depart. The lanterns came in all shapes, some resembling the figures of animals and houses, while others were simpler. Painted colorfully in red, black, or white. Each dangled from its pole like an ornament” (181). This passage shows us a very colorful night. 
1. As in many other places in this book, the author connects her novel to our sense of taste: “The smell of frying fish, mochi in soy sauce and sugar, and red bean cakes made my stomach growl” (181). Reading this part of the story just makes me feel very hungry and I open up a new box of cookies while I type this line. 
1. “It was hard to imagine what the future would bring to any of us. All over Japan they were celebrating the dead, even as more and more Chinese were being slaughtered. There would be no one left to celebrate them” (181-82). The author expresses a very difficult and complex emotion in the voice of Stephen. It must be very difficult to live behind the enemy line during the war. My father had to briefly experience that during his childhood in Korea. He grew up in Incheon Chinatown in Korea and moved back with his family to Shanghai China in September 10, 1937 for the very same reason Stephen went though in this story. After the official war declaration between China and Japan, they live inside the enemy controlled region and could be charged as a spy for China and get into trouble easily. It must have been hard for him during those two months. 
1. With her skillful writing, the author brings us to feel the body movement between Stephen and Keiko: “I pulled Keiko close to me and held on tight. I could feel her body choking back her tears., moving up and down in small hiccups” (188). It is an intense emotional moment. It expresses a complicated sadness of the losses- the loss of her brother, and the loss of her love. A double loss for Keiko.
1. The author painted a very colorful image to our mind while we read how Stephene remember about Keiko: “I can still see the colors of Keiko; the black of her hair against creamy pale skin, her dark blue kimono with white circles, the deep orange persimmons falling from the brown basket she carried. The ache in my heart grows larger every time I think of these colors, and how as each day passes they continue to fade from my eyes” (189). This made the black text on a brown paper novel all of sudden became a colorful fiction book. 
