# ARTS 4A Beginning Drawing
I took ARTS 4A Beginning Drawing in De Anza College during Spring 2023 (April 10 - June 01, 2023). This repo archived my work for this course. My professor is Kenney Mencher.
* [Week 1 Assigment- Old Master Copies Using the Envelope Method](https://photos.app.goo.gl/ukd5K4TDZ5ceHB2Y7)
  * **Instruction:** Please create two to five copies of masterwork drawings using the envelope method. You should have read all the links in this module before you attempt this.
  * Drawing 1. Copying Bust of a Monk Assisting at Communion, Martin Schongauer (German c. 1450-1491) from page 19.
  * Drawing 2. Copying Self-Portrait, c. 1637, Rembrandt van Ryn (Dutch 1606-1669) from page 54.
  * Drawing 3. Copying Design for a Wall Décoration, 1640-1645, Jacob Jordaens (Flemish 1593-1678)
  * Drawing 4. Copying Self-Portrait, c. 1615, Gian Lorenzo Bernini (Roman 1598-1680)
  * **Feedback from Instrcutor:** A (10) "Nice work! Very well crafted and observed. Especially for a beginning assignment! Accurate shapes, you did more than the minimum amount of drawings and well observed!"
* [Week 2 Assigment- Old Master Copy Using a Grid](https://photos.app.goo.gl/NB7rXkCvjvGirUtp8)
  * **Instruction:** Please create two to five copies of masterworks using the grid and transfer method. You should have read all the links in this module before you attempt this.
  * Drawing 1. Copying A Fisherman with His Net, c. 162.0, Guercino (Bolognese 1591-1666) 
  * Drawing 2. Copying The Emperor Aulus Vitellius, Paolo Farinati (Venetian 1524-1606) 
  * Drawing 3. Copying Half Figure of an Old Woman with a Cap, Hans Baldung Grien (German c. 1485-1545) 
  * Drawing 4. Copying Rachel Carrying the Idols, Simon Vouet (French 1590-1649) 
  * Drawing 5. Copying Young Girl, Antoine Watteau
  * **Erly Feedback from Instructor:** "...when checking your grid and transfer assignments, although you've done a bunch of them, some of them could be even more accurate. They don't correspond as accurately as they could to the grids. The line quality and shading could be taken to the next level with practice."
  * Drawing 6. Copying Design for a Wall Décoration, 1640-1645, Jacob Jordaens (Flemish 1593-1678), pencil and watercolor pencil
  * Drawing 7. Coping An Oriental Ruler Seated on His Throne, c. 1495, Albrecht Durer (German 1471-152.8)
  * Drawing 8. Copying Self-Portrait, c. 1615, Gian Lorenzo Bernini (Roman 1598-1680)
  * Drawing 9. Copying Saint Sebald, c. 1510, Hans Sebald Beham (German 1500-1550)
  * Drawing 10. Copying 400% of Jackson on my 20 USD bill.
  * **Feedback from Instrcutor:** A (10) "Overall this is one of the best assignments in the class. You've really done a lot of work here and I appreciate how much extra time you spent putting into this assignment. As I go through your different drawings and look over the assignment that you've done there are a couple of things that probably you could work on in terms of all of your drawings not just the grid assignment. For example in the architectural components, such as the columns in one of your copies, Artwork #6, you could work on the verticals of the columns and make the lines flow as one continuous line rather than sketched out as a series of broken lines which defined the contours were edges of the column. In artwork nine, I think would be okay to use a compass to define the circle rather than sketched by hand and in general with some of your drawings I think would be okay to use a ruler if you're having a hard time getting a straight line sketched in. In general you worked harder and longer than most of the other students in the class and you can be proud of this assignment."
* [Week 3 Assigment- Drawings of the Basic Shapes](https://photos.app.goo.gl/YC922EkNgkAXN9iv7)
  * **Instruction:** Please create a minimum of four drawings (eight would be optimal) of the basic shapes. Sphere, Cone, Cube, Cylinder
  * **First image** - [Drawing of Cube, Cylinder, Cone, and Sphere by pencels](https://photos.app.goo.gl/PdqhEtyb6L6cDgqJ6).
  * **Second image** - [Drawing of Cube, Cylinder, Cone, and Sphere by China Markers](https://photos.app.goo.gl/YCbwovQJB6N9fzMn7).
  * **Erly Feedback from Instructor:** "For the basic shapes, the ellipses on top of the cylinders are inaccurate, and on first appraisal things could be neater, better crafted and the steps in the shading could be more accurate. It looks like your missing some tones especially in the reflected or bounce light."
  * **Drawing 3** [Drawing of Cubes and Cones stack together, pencel on paper](https://photos.app.goo.gl/4oivDgMjjr7aez5s9).
  * **Drawing 4** [Drawing of Cylinders stack together, pencel on paper](https://photos.app.goo.gl/fJK4f1D1FF5efR8k8).
  * **Drawing 5** [Drawing of Cone, and Sphere, Water-soluble graphite pencels, water, and Compressed Charcoal Sticks on paper](https://photos.app.goo.gl/CLYMwLSRzSW6Fh8CA).
  * **Feedback from Instructor:** A- (9.3) "These are all excellent drawings and you certainly gone above and beyond with the minimum of the required amount of drawings was for the assignment. I know that you are working really hard and I think that you might be disappointed if I didn't give you some tips on how to improve your drawings so I'm going to tell you what kinds of things are inaccurate. However, I want you to understand that these are excellent drawings and that they are perfectly appropriate for 100% for this level of project. The top of the cylinder in your upper right-hand drawing could be better drawing of an ellipse. The edges of some of the shapes could be straighter and better drawn. The reflected light on the cylinder in your first drawing in the upper right-hand corner is too bright. In some of your drawings for example in drawing three, the shapes are not very straight or well-defined especially in the cones. Nevertheless overall you've done an excellent job here"
* [Week 3 Exta Credit- Extra Credit: Extra Drawings of Basic Shapes](https://photos.app.goo.gl/vm2dMZBjNNyLYH8z8).
  * [Drawing 2 - Pencels](https://photos.app.goo.gl/svs5aKtxLfCeLP1YA).
  * [Drawing 3 - Pencels](https://photos.app.goo.gl/3Yriy5yAQmpPkhNaA).
  * [Drawing 4 - Vine Charcoals and Compressed Charcoals](https://photos.app.goo.gl/rpuwrYLHBgD9gAtv8).
  * **Feedback from Instructor:** A (10) "Thank you so much for doing so much extra work. These drawings are very good! To improve on the drawings, I think the backgrounds and planes could have been rendered out more. In the background a complete tone across the whole drawing would help to unify it. Sometimes you are missing reflected light or over emphasize the reflected light. Edges and shapes could be even more accurate. Nevertheless, this is fantastic work."
* [Week 4 Assigment- Drawings of the Basic Shapes Using Cross Hatching and Mark Making](https://photos.app.goo.gl/Xndo9SWjDNHiUNiK8)
  * **Instruction:** For this assignment you need to post/make drawings of each of the basic shapes using cross hatching technique. Using cross hatching make one drawing of each of these shapes, Sphere, Cone, Cube, Cylinder
  * Drawing 1 Drawing cube, cylinder, cone and sphere using cross hatching by Sharpies.
  * Drawing 2 Drawing cube, cylinder, cone and sphere using cross hatching by Graphite. 
  * Drawing 3 Drawing cube, cylinder, cone and sphere using cross hatching by whiteboard marker on whiteboard.
  * Drawing 4 Drawing cube, cylinder, cone and sphere using cross hatching by Marker on paper .
  * Drawing 5 Drawing cube, cylinder, cone and sphere using cross hatching by blue ballpoint pen on paper .
  * **Feedback from Instructor:** A- (9.3) "Hello Frank, These are very good drawings and as usual your work is quite good. Some places where your work and brought to the next level or improved would be to make your shapes more accurate. For example, some of your elliptical shapes and cast shadows are inaccurate in shape. The reflected light and core shadow in your cylinders should be stripped or bands rather than curved shapes. Please consult the video that I made on Friday and uploaded. In general the mark making is very good and the hatch marks make a lot of sense in your drawings."
* [Week 5 Assigment- One Point Perspective Project Depicting Rendered Basic Shapes](https://photos.app.goo.gl/aRh2qXYr7YjPbq9w9)
  * **Instruction:** For this assignment you need to post/make drawings of each of the basic shapes using cross hatching technique. Using cross hatching make one drawing of each of these shapes, sphere, cone, cube, cylinder.
  * Drawing 1 - with Pencil, including the cube, the sphere, the cone, and the cylinder. 
  * Drawing 2 - with sharpie, including the cube, the sphere, the cone, and the cylinder. 
  * **Feedback from Instructor:** A- (9.3) "This is an excellent effort. And certainly tried to do more than what was assigned. Your first drawing in pencil is very good in terms of the accuracy of most of the perspective. The place where it could be improved the most is in the level of craft and the shading. I'm not sure if the shapes on the far right-hand side are cylinders or if their cubes because the shading and the way in which their rendered is a little messy. In your ink drawings the core shadow and transitional tones on the spheres are problem and I'm not really sure what's going on with all of the elements of light and shadow that seem to be missing there."
* [Week 6 Assigment- Two Point Perspective Project Rendering Basic Shapes](https://photos.app.goo.gl/tBi7Rt1AUesCFez99)
  * **Instruction:** The assignment is to make a two point perspective drawing of the basic shapes and then shade them in any media you like. You should attempt to include all four basic shapes, the cube, the sphere, the cone, and the cylinder.
  * **Feedback from Instructor:** A (10) "As usual these are excellent drawings and you gone way beyond the restraints or confines of the assignment I appreciate how hard you're working in this class. One of the things that could be improved if you are looking for me to highlight some areas for improvement would be to be a little bit more crafted a little bit tidier and a little less messy in terms of some of your shading and your mark making however, these are really great assignments for beginning drawing class."
* [Week 7 Assigment- Drawing of A Basic Still Life](https://photos.app.goo.gl/SuD8BUQ94XyjuKg67)
  * **Instruction:** For this assignment you need to post three drawings of still life. Please base these drawings on a still life that you have set up in your home. Drawing #1 should be a single object (I suggest a piece of fruit.) You can use whatever medium you feel comfortable with, for example, charcoal, pencil, crayon etc. Please also post a photo of your still life, what your drawing is based on. Drawing #2 three to five objects or pieces of fruit. You can use whatever medium you feel comfortable with, for example, charcoal, pencil, crayon etc. Please also post a photo of your still life, what your drawing is based on. Drawing #3 Using cross hatching technique, draw three to five objects or pieces of fruit. You can use whatever medium you feel comfortable with, for example, charcoal, pencil, crayon etc. Please also post a photo of your still life, what your drawing is based on. I suggest you draw fruit rather than hard edged realistic items but you are welcome to incorporate things like bottles, books, and other simple objects.  The closer to the basic shapes the better.  You should set up a light source that creates a contrast of light and shadow called "chiaroscuro." Make sure you watch the videos on Caravaggio and Velasquez to understand dramatic lighting.
  * Drawing 1 - Single object - Banana
  * Drawing 2 - three to five objects - Water Bottole, A coffee cup of watermelon and pistachio, a paper cup of Chi Latte, a half glass of Pomegranate Kombucha, and a silver spone.
  * Drawing 3 -  three to five objects using cross hatching - Two bananas and three peaches.
  * **Feedback from Instructor:** A- (9.3) "Very good drawings. This is right in line with where you as a beginner. In all three of her drawings, you have not accurately shading or value structure to what is in front of you. For example, the banana drawing, the banana is a much lighter value or shade than the drapery behind the viewer to assign a value, such as zero the white 10 being black, the banana is a range of values between two and three, where's the drapery is a darker shade between values of four and eight. The same thing happens with the second drawing especially, the shading of the water bottle which is a much darker value that almost any of the other tones up there.  The water bottle is as dark as the liquid in the clear glass and the nuts in the cup. Even the spoon could be darker in terms of shade. Something that you did not do for all of the drawings which was suggested/requested was to set up a strong light source coming from one side that created a lot of contrast between light shadow. All of your drawings seem to be very evenly lit. You should have a strong light source to either the left or the right in these."
* [Week 8 Assigment- Still Life (Composition and Meaning)]
  * **Instruction:** In module #4 you learned how to render the basic shapes using hatch marks.  You will be using those skills for this section.  Please also refer to the readings that were provided last week. You will be rendering these still lifes with hatchmarks.  
    * For this assignment you need to post two drawings of still life. Please base these drawings on a still life that you have set up in your home.
    * Drawing #1 should be a single object (I suggest a piece of fruit.) You can use whatever medium you feel comfortable with, for example, magic marker, pen, charcoal, pencil, crayon etc. Please also post a photo of your still life, what your drawing is based on.
    * Drawing #2 three to five objects or pieces of fruit. You can use whatever medium you feel comfortable with, for example, charcoal, pencil, crayon etc. Please also post a photo of your still life, what your drawing is based on.
* [Week 9 Assigment- Drawing the Head two views]
  * **Instruction:** For this assignment you need to post two drawings of the human head. Please base these drawings either on photographs or copying the drawings in the book by Andrew Loomis.
    * Drawing #1 should be a front view.  You can use whatever medium you feel comfortable with, for example, charcoal, pencil, crayon etc. Please also post a photo of what your drawing is based on.
    * Drawing #2 should be a profile view.  You can use whatever medium you feel comfortable with, for example, charcoal, pencil, crayon etc. Please also post a photo of what your drawing is based on.
* [Week 10 Assigment- Drawing 5 Hands]
  * **Instruction:** For this assignment you need to post two drawings of the human head. Please base these drawings either on photographs or copying the drawings in the book by Andrew Loomis. Make 5 drawings of hands.  They can all be on the same page if you like.  You can use whatever medium you feel comfortable with, for example, charcoal, pencil, crayon etc. Please also post a photo of what your drawing is based on.
* [Week 11 Assigment- Drawing 5 Figures]
  * **Instruction:** For this assignment you need to post five drawings of the human figure. Please base these drawings any of these options: on photographs or copying the drawings in the book by Andrew Loomis or copying old master drawings. Make 5 drawings of the full figure.  They can all be on the same page if you like.  You can use whatever medium you feel comfortable with, for example, charcoal, pencil, crayon etc. Please also post photos of what your drawings are based on.
* [Final Project]
  * **Instruction:** For this assignment you need to post one drawing in which you include two or more of the following elements, still life objects or props, a human figure, in an environment that shows the use of one or two point perspective. Please include a description of what the drawing means to you and what it portrays.
