# Week 7 Assigment- Drawing of A Basic Still Life

**Instruction:** For this assignment you need to post three drawings of still life. Please base these drawings on a still life that you have set up in your home. Drawing #1 should be a single object (I suggest a piece of fruit.) You can use whatever medium you feel comfortable with, for example, charcoal, pencil, crayon etc. Please also post a photo of your still life, what your drawing is based on. Drawing #2 three to five objects or pieces of fruit. You can use whatever medium you feel comfortable with, for example, charcoal, pencil, crayon etc. Please also post a photo of your still life, what your drawing is based on. Drawing #3 Using cross hatching technique, draw three to five objects or pieces of fruit. You can use whatever medium you feel comfortable with, for example, charcoal, pencil, crayon etc. Please also post a photo of your still life, what your drawing is based on. I suggest you draw fruit rather than hard edged realistic items but you are welcome to incorporate things like bottles, books, and other simple objects.  The closer to the basic shapes the better.  You should set up a light source that creates a contrast of light and shadow called "chiaroscuro." Make sure you watch the videos on Caravaggio and Velasquez to understand dramatic lighting.

[Submission](https://photos.app.goo.gl/SuD8BUQ94XyjuKg67)
* Drawing 1 - Single object - Banana
* Drawing 2 - three to five objects - Water Bottole, A coffee cup of watermelon and pistachio, a paper cup of Chi Latte, a half glass of Pomegranate Kombucha, and a silver spone.
* Drawing 3 -  three to five objects using cross hatching - Two bananas and three peaches.

**Feedback from Instructor:** A- (9.3) "Very good drawings. This is right in line with where you as a beginner. In all three of her drawings, you have not accurately shading or value structure to what is in front of you. For example, the banana drawing, the banana is a much lighter value or shade than the drapery behind the viewer to assign a value, such as zero the white 10 being black, the banana is a range of values between two and three, where's the drapery is a darker shade between values of four and eight. The same thing happens with the second drawing especially, the shading of the water bottle which is a much darker value that almost any of the other tones up there.  The water bottle is as dark as the liquid in the clear glass and the nuts in the cup. Even the spoon could be darker in terms of shade. Something that you did not do for all of the drawings which was suggested/requested was to set up a strong light source coming from one side that created a lot of contrast between light shadow. All of your drawings seem to be very evenly lit. You should have a strong light source to either the left or the right in these."
