**Name**: Yungfong TANG (aka Frank TANG)

**Due Date**: Feb 13, 2023

**Title**: Project 2 “INFORMATION WARS: Words Matter” Self Evaluation

Incorporate glyphs of different typefaces into design is an interesting and challenging process. Simplifying the design to concentrate the attention of the viewer is often a more powerful approach than a complex scene. Painting the upper right portion black is my last minute alternation to improve the powerful message of the final work. 

I found the important aspect of my artist identity relies on my desire to paint faces of my loved ones to express my care to them. Illustration of a face became an important part of this project. I showed my preliminary sketches with the professor and discussed each of them to get his feedback. During the discussion I realized the only one of my designs that fulfills all the requirements is the “ART speak” design which calls out the “ART” to “speak” with a mouth logo and the speaking image of Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. during his “I have a dream” speech. I decided to use “Broadway” to render the “ART” and “Bembo” for “Speak” in my detailed design. Drawing the serif on the “Bembo'' typeface is harder than I thought. The depiction of the Dr. King is surely another difficult task. In my final result, his face looks a little bit thinner than he should be. The mouth logo on top of the word “Speak” is slightly too big and touches the edge of the bounding box so it does not look as good as it could be. Time management is very easy for me in this project. I finished all the work way ahead of the deadline because I have three other courses that require me to work on midterm this week. I originally wanted to construct a big white S on the upper right corner with two white circles and three rectangle bars. I even draw the shape on the paper with black marker already. However, after I complete the sketching of Dr. King’s face, I realize that white S will create distraction to the viewer and dilute the powerful image delivered by Dr. King’s look. Therefore, at the last minute, I decided to alternate my designs and fill all of that region with black paint. The end result makes the image of Dr. King stands out and leaves some imagination work to the viewer to think about. 

I believe my design is constructed pretty well. I love the contrast of black and white and I learn the powerful usage of different typefaces and the difficulty to draw them by hand. It is very fun to render glyphs in the “Broadway” typeface. Last minute simplifications fine tune the crispness of my work.  
