**Name:** Yungfong TANG (aka Frank TANG)

**Due Date:** March 29, 2023

**Title:** Project 4 “The Golden Age of Film Animation, 1928-1957” Self Evaluation

Developing a storyboard for a short animation film to address the Climate Crisis is a challenging task for me. I would like to point out the fact that the mass media always link the issue to the same thing - the fossil fuel usage in household vehicles but fail to report the impact of the Climate Crisis on other news events. 

I have several ideas to illustrate. First, to discuss the negative impact of the successful SpaceX recyclable Falcon 9 rockets design. However, I found the number is not convincing compared to other causes. Second, I would like to point out the negative impact on the Climate Crisis from the Russian invasion toward the Ukraine war. However, while the quantitative measure of such an issue seems significant, I feel there is not much the audience can do to make a difference. Finally, I think the idea to mention the negative impact to the Climate Crisis from the 2020 California wildfire is both significant and actionable and decide on focusing on that. In the six frame, I would like the ending to be telling the audience about the quantity value of the impact. The second from the last need to link the previous frames to the context. Therefore, I decided to render a California map with the text 2020 to ground the context. Frame 1 to 4 therefore were used to draw the narrative. In the first frame, I render a driver of an electronic vehicle, implying a person who cares to improve the Climate Crisis, took a careless action by smoking while driving. And in the second frame I show the cigarette flying out in action. And in the third frame the cigarette ignited wildfire and in the forth frame the fire spread widely. I found it difficult to adopt the rendering style of the three choices the professor provided. This is mainly because the examples were all in animation, which means the fullness of these styles include both the music and the movement of animation but our six frame work can not fully utilize those aspects but only the rendering aspect of them. For example, I would love to use the kind of music and sound effects in those animations but I cannot express that in this six frames work.

Connecting still images to form a narrative is not a simple task. It is hard to illustrate some of the movements needed in the storytelling. I try to use lines to illustrate the flying cigarette and render a massive area of smoke floating toward right in a coherent appearance to emphasize the massiveness of wildfire.
