**Name:** Yungfong TANG (aka Frank TANG)

**Due Date:** March 8, 2023

**Title:** Project 3 “GaGa 4 DaDa” Self Evaluation Art: МАКЕ АМЕЯСIА GЯЕАТ АGАIИ 

Painting the serif of a serif typeface with acrylic paint is challenging. It is not easy to decide how to paint the nine levels of gray scales from a color photo. Mastering control of painting small pointed stars is hard.

I decided to choose a political topic to challenge the concept of greatness and how a nation could achieve it. Oftentimes, greatness cannot be achieved by simply yelling about it but somehow many groups in our country think that is. Oftentimes such an approach is simply counter productive and makes things worse. In this work, the upper part shows the “horned guy” of the Jan 6 capital attack split the US Capital in half, with both sides showing an USA flag in the background. The “horned guy” is in the gesture of yielding the slogan “Make America Great Again” the Trump 2020 campaign slogan. But did his act make the country great? Or that makes our country despicable? In the lower portion I depict a twisted slogan - “МАКЕ АМЕЯСIА GЯЕАТ АGАIИ” which looks like Trump’s slogan but with Cyrillic characters instead to hint the influence of Russia to our politics.  К, Я and И are Cyrillic characters which looks like modification or mirror image of characters used in English.. The M, A, E, and C glyphs are the same in both scripts. These Cyrllic glyphs are broken and falling to create dramatic effect. Overall, I am happy with my design and rendering of the “horned guy” and the split US Capital but not satisfied with my detailed illustration work on the American flags, the stars and the text. For the images, I first find some photo from the internet, scale it to the size and print it out black and white on paper. I then lay that on my Bristol and press pen over lines to create an impression on the Bristol, I then outline those traces and apply some gray color acrylic paint. I was not happy with my first round of filling and modified about three times to reach the end result. I added two American flags in the background after I completed most of the work. I think the idea is great but my execution to draw the stars is not. 

I need to find a better way to draw details on acrylic paint. It is hard for me to control the brush to such fine details. I also lost patience after drawing many stars so some of them look sloppy. It is a great design but mediocre execution on the later part of the work. 
