# The Gospel of John @ PBCC
[Images](https://photos.app.goo.gl/4t1MVx4yK1WEeQpt7)
* Date: October 1, 2023 - Janurary 14, 2024
* Location: Peninsula Bible Church Cupertino, 10601 N Blaney Ave, Cupertino, CA 95014
## "I am The Light of the World" (2023)
* Relevant Portion of Scripture: John 9:1-41
* Size: 20”Hx16”Wx7/8”D
* Medium: House Paint and Acrylic on canvas
  
In John 9, Jesus declared “While I am in the world, I am the Light of the world.” toward the blind from birth the moment before he applied the mud to his eyes. The blind then see. What would he see at the moment he gained his vision? In this work, I illustrate the light as a combination of white with three primary colors, red, blue and yellow. Different wavelengths of light show different colors to our eyes and the blind who regains the vision will see different colors get into different parts of his vision gradually. The light is shining into the darkness, instead of shining in an already bright environment. While we may perceive that light is in white color, it is actually a combination of light beams in different wavelengths. Jesus is the light of the world, for the whole world. 
## "I am the Light of the world, ... Light of life" (2023)
* Relevant Portion of Scripture: John 8:12
* Size: 20”Hx16”Wx1 1/2”D
* Medium: Assemblage (LED Light, White & Silver Paper, Plastic Straw, and Acrylic on top of House Paint) on Canvas
  
I illustrate the Light of Life as a DIRECTIONAL light in this work. Since nothing can illustrate the magical quality of light better than itself, I use a set of LEDs to create the light source, with the assistance of light beams consisting of white and silver paper strips, shining upon a person located in the darkness. John mentioned this verse right after the story of The Adulterous Woman. In that story, scribes and the Pharisees left one by one without condemning the Woman after Jesus said to them, “He who is without sin among you, let him be the first to throw a stone at her.” Jesus then said to the woman “I do not condemn you, either. Go. From now on do not sin any longer.” Light of Life is a light without condemning us but rather directs us to “not sin any longer”. 
## "This was the true Light that, coming into the world, enlightens every person" (2023)
* Relevant Portion of Scripture: John 1:9, Matthew 1:14-16
* Size: 16”Hx20”Wx7/8”D
* Medium: House Paint and Acrylic on canvas

The True Light was the one prophesied by Isaiah, the great light seen by those who were sitting in the darkness and the land of shadow of death. So how to illustrate True Light? First, it needs to be located in the darkness, not located under bright daylight. Second, it needs to show the true quality of the light. I took many photos of the Sun to study what our eyes see from the bright sunlight. I Realize due to the liquid inside our eyes, we will see different colors in different regions of the light. The area closer to the center will show some light blue, and moving light green, light yellow, light orange, light red and then white not uniformly in all directions. This work renders the light in a landscape setting to hint the wild coverage of His mercy and grace as the True Light. 
